Both avoidant children and pathological
narcissists appear to have experienced
an early emotionally invalidating
environment. In fact, when describing
the early experiences of narcissistic
patients, Otto Karnberg wrote, quote,
"Chronically cold parental figures with
covert but intense aggression is a very
frequent feature of the background of
these patients." End quote. Both
avoidant children and pathological
narcissists seem to have experienced
parental pressure to hide negative
emotions and instead display emotions
that are pleasing to their caregivers.
They learned to disconnect from their
authentic feelings, to turn the volume
down on their attachment needs,
eventually appearing not to have any
attachment needs whatsoever. Never.